Migration document for Node Exporter Helm Chart (#1842)
kubermatic/docs: content/kubermatic/main/installation/upgrading/upgrade-from-2.27-to-2.28/_index.en.md

+++
title = "Upgrading to KKP 2.28"
date = 2025-03-17T00:00:00+02:00
weight = 10
+++

{{% notice warning %}}
This is a draft document for an unreleased version of KKP. The information contained here is subject to change and should not be used for production upgrades.
{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice note %}}
Upgrading to KKP 2.28 is only supported from version 2.27. Do not attempt to upgrade from versions prior to that and apply the upgrade step by step over minor versions instead (e.g. from [2.26 to 2.27]({{< ref "../upgrade-from-2.26-to-2.27/" >}}) and then to 2.28). It is also strongly advised to be on the latest 2.27.x patch release before upgrading to 2.28.
{{% /notice %}}

> This guide will walk you through upgrading Kubermatic Kubernetes Platform (KKP) to version 2.28. For the full list of changes in this release, please check out the [KKP changelog for v2.28](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/blob/main/docs/changelogs/CHANGELOG-2.28.md). Please read the full document before proceeding with the upgrade.

Author: The changelog link is from GitHub for  all the KKP releases. Here one of the reference - https://github.com/kubermatic/docs/blob/main/content/kubermatic/v2.27/installation/upgrading/upgrade-from-2.26-to-2.27/_index.en.md?plain=1#L11C1-L11C6 
Do we want to bring this change now?

> This guide will walk you through upgrading Kubermatic Kubernetes Platform (KKP) to version 2.28. For the full list of changes in this release, please check out the [KKP changelog for v2.28](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/blob/main/docs/changelogs/CHANGELOG-2.28.md). Please read the full document before proceeding with the upgrade.

Reviewer: It was just a remark from this PRs review but if it's already different in others places then I'll say this change would be out of scope for this PR.

## Pre-Upgrade Considerations

{{% notice warning %}}
Please review [known issues]({{< ref "../../../architecture/known-issues/" >}}) before upgrading to understand if any issues might affect you.
{{% /notice %}}

### Node Exporter 1.9 (Seed MLA)

KKP 2.28 removes the custom Helm chart and instead now reuses the official [upstream chart](https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts).

> ##### Migration Procedure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Migration Procedure
```

The top-level key `nodeExporter` is replaced with `node-exporter`, the `values.yaml` should be updated for this change before proceeding with the upgrade.

> The key `nodeExporter.rbacProxy` is being removed. For adjusting the kubeRBACProxy container configuration, kindly adjust the values under `node-exporter.kubeRBACProxy` key in `values.yaml` for any customization in place.

Reviewer: Convert this into a list of action items. Something like this:

```
The following actions are required for migration before performing the upgrade:
1. In `values.yaml` replace the top-level key `nodeExporter` with `node-exporter`
2. ...
3. ...
```

> Migration will be taken care by `kubermatic-installer`, if you are using it to deploy the `seed-mla` components which includes node-exporter.

Reviewer: Which migration? If the user above is already doing manual steps then please explain what else would `kubermatic-installer` migrate(for the end user) here.

Note: Below action required only if you are installing it in GitOps way, before upgrading you must delete the existing Helm release.

```bash
helm --namespace monitoring delete node-exporter
```

> Afterwards you can install the new release from the chart.

Reviewer: This is great and quite straightforward to do :D @wozniakjan @archups should we really build migration in `kubermatic-installer` if the user can simply do this instead?

Reviewer: > I think you meant me and not Jan again :)

Not sure how that keeps on happening....

> it was always the expectetation that the installer does everything for the user so we kept building the migration.

The problem with this automation is that it's not complete; just removing the Daemonset is not enough, as described here https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/14176#discussion_r2000957236

Author: > @archups isn't it better to just remove node-exporter daemonset object instead of entire helm release?

@wurbanski when doing it GitOps way, the entire helm release should be removed instead of just the daemonset.

{{% /notice %}}

This guide will walk you through upgrading Kubermatic Kubernetes Platform (KKP) to version 2.28. For the full list of changes in this release, please check out the [KKP changelog for v2.28](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/blob/main/docs/changelogs/CHANGELOG-2.28.md). Please read the full document before proceeding with the upgrade.

## Pre-Upgrade Considerations

{{% notice warning %}}
Please review [known issues]({{< ref "../../../architecture/known-issues/" >}}) before upgrading to understand if any issues might affect you.
{{% /notice %}}

### Node Exporter Upgrade (Seed MLA)

KKP 2.28 removes the custom Helm chart for Node Exporter and instead now reuses the official [upstream Helm chart](https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts).

#### Migration Procedure

The following actions are required for migration before performing the upgrade:
- Replace the top-level key `nodeExporter` with `node-exporter` in the `values.yaml`

> - The key `nodeExporter.rbacProxy` is being removed. For adjusting the kubeRBACProxy container configuration, kindly adjust the values under `node-exporter.kubeRBACProxy` key in `values.yaml` for any customization in place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The key `nodeExporter.rbacProxy` has been removed.  Use `node-exporter.kubeRBACProxy` instead to configure kube-rbac-proxy.

For adjusting the kubeRBACProxy container configuration, kindly adjust the values under `node-exporter.kubeRBACProxy` key in `values.yaml` for any customization in place.
```

> Once the above adjustments are done and if you are using it to deploy the Seed MLA components which includes node-exporter, then the KKP `kubermatic-installer` command can be used to perform the migration/upgrade of the existing node-exporter setup to the upstream node-exporter helm chart
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the above adjustments have been made. If you are using `kubermatic-installer` for the Seed MLA installation, then it will take care of removing the resources for the deprecated node-exporter with the new upstream one by itself.

```
